DOC-10667 Add optional GROUP AS clause for queries (#143)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/n1ql/pages/n1ql-language-reference/groupby.adoc

== Purpose

Use the GROUP BY clause to arrange aggregate values into groups of one or more fields.

> This `GROUP BY` clause follows the `WHERE` clause and precedes the optional `GROUP AS`, `LETTING`, `HAVING`, and `ORDER BY` clauses.

Reviewer: Only just noticed this. I don't think it's right to say that the GROUP BY clause _precedes_ GROUP AS, LETTING, HAVING, or ORDER BY, in as much as these are part of the GROUP BY clause, whereas ORDER BY is on the same level. I would rephrase this to say:

```suggestion
This `GROUP BY` clause follows the `WHERE` clause and may contain the optional `GROUP AS`, `LETTING`, and `HAVING` clauses.
```

----

image::n1ql-language-reference/group-as-clause.png["Syntax diagram", align=left]

JSON is a hierarchical format, and a fully featured JSON query language needs to be able to produce hierarchies of its own, with computed data at every level of the hierarchy. 
The key feature of SQL{pp} that makes this possible is the `GROUP AS` clause.

A query can include a `GROUP AS` clause only if it has a `GROUP BY` clause. 
The effect of a `GROUP BY` clause is to hide the original objects in each group, exposing only the grouping expressions and special aggregation functions on the non-grouping fields. 
The purpose of the `GROUP AS` clause is to make the original objects in the group visible to subsequent clauses. 
As a result, the query can generate output data both for the group as a whole and for the individual objects inside the group.

For each group, `GROUP AS` preserves all of the objects in the group, as they were before grouping, in an array. 
The name of the array is the alias in the GROUP AS clause. 
You can then use the array name in the `FROM` clause of a subquery to process and return the individual objects in the group.

> If the `FROM` clause of the query includes an alias or aliases, the `GROUP AS` array wraps each object in an outer object identified by its `FROM` alias. 

Reviewer 2: Please change this line "If the `FROM` clause of the query includes an alias or aliases, the `GROUP AS` array wraps each object in an outer object identified by its `FROM` alias. "

... to something along the lines of - 

In the GROUP AS array, each object in the group is wrapped in an outer object that gives it the name of the alias if specified or the implicit alias of its corresponding from-term in the FROM clause.

[ The reason I ask for this change is because the FROM clause need not explicitly have an alias mentioned.  If no alias is set example if simply like - SELECT * FROM airline; the alias of the "airline" from-term is simply "airline". This is the implicit alias ]

Author: ah, I see it now, thank you

Identifying the objects with their aliases in this way helps avoid ambiguity.

For example, a query has a `FROM` clause of `FROM airline as a, route as r`, and a `GROUP AS` clause of `GROUP AS g`. 

> The `GROUP AS` clause preserves the airline and route objects together in the same array. 

Reviewer 2: One minor change request - could we please change "The `GROUP AS` clause preserves the airline and route objects together in the same array. " 

to

"Each item in the group would contain both an `airline` object and a `route` object."

[ the reason I ask for this change is because it is important for users to understand that each _group item_ will have both objects. And hence, requiring each object to be identified separately with its alias ]

Everything else looks great to me!

Author: got it. 
I am trying very hard not to use the word "group" to describe the JSON syntax that results from GROUP BY or GROUP AS since I think that overloads the word. 
How's this @dhanyagowrish : 

The result of the `GROUP AS` clause is an array of objects, each of which contains both an airline object and a route object.

Reviewer 2: That sounds great.

These objects might contain field names that are the same, such as `"id"`. 

> However, the resulting array `g` identifies each of the object separately with its alias, as follows:

Author: I'll delete "However, " here as unnecessary, fix up to:

The resulting array `g` identifies each of the objects it contains separately with its alias, as follows:
